but now thus says the Lord who created
you Oh Jacob and he who formed you O
Israel fear not for I have redeemed you
I have called you by your name
you are mine when you pass through the
waters I will be with you and through
the rivers they shall not overflow you
when you walk through the fire you shall
not be burned nor shall the flame scorch
you for I am the Lord your God the Holy
One of Israel your Saviour
I gave Egypt for your ransom Ethiopia
and Seba in your place since you were
precious in my sight you have been
honored and I have loved you therefore I
will give men for you and people for
your life fear not for I am with you
I will bring your descendents from the
east and gather you from the West I will
say to the north give them up and to the
south do not keep them back bring my
sons from afar and my daughters from the
ends of the earth everyone who is called
by my name whom I have created for my
glory I have formed him yes I have made
him bring out the blind people who have
eyes and the Deaf who have ears let all
the nations be gathered together and let
the people be assembled who among them
can declare this and show us former
things let them bring out their
witnesses that they may be justified or
let them hear and say it is truth you
are my witnesses says the Lord and my
servant whom I have chosen that you may
know and believe me and understand that
I am he before me there was no God
formed nor shall there be after me I
even I am the Lord and besides me there
is no Savior
I have declared and saved
I have proclaimed and there was no
foreign god among you
therefore you are my witnesses that I am
God indeed before the day was I am he
and there is no one who can deliver out
of my hand I work and who will reverse
it thus says the Lord your Redeemer the
Holy One of Israel for your sake I will
send to Babylon and bring them all down
as fugitives the Chaldeans who rejoice
in their ships I am the Lord your only
one the creator of Israel your king
thus says the Lord who makes away in the
sea and a path through the mighty waters
who brings forth the chariot and horse
the army and the power they shall lie
down together they shall not rise they
are extinguished they are quenched like
a wick do not remember the former things
nor consider the things of old behold I
will do a new thing now it shall spring
forth shall you not know it I will even
make a road in the wilderness and rivers
in the desert the beasts of the field
will honour me the Jackals and the
ostriches because I give waters in the
wilderness and rivers in the desert
to give drink to my people my chosen
this people I have formed for myself
they shall declare my praise but you
have not called upon me O Jacob and you
have been weary of me o Israel you have
not brought me the sheep for your burnt
offerings nor have you honoured me with
your sacrifices I have not caused you to
serve with grain offerings nor where did
you with incense you have bought me no
sweet came with money nor have you
satisfied me with the fat of your
sacrifices but you have burdened me with
your sins you have wearied me with your
iniquities I even I am he who blots out
your transgressions for my own sake
and I will not remember your sin it's
put me in remembrance
let us contend together state your case
that you may be acquitted your first
father sinned and your mediators have
transgressed against me therefore I will
profane the princes of the sanctuary I
will give Jacob to the cursed and Israel
to reproaches